Seema Vora: Welcome all
and thank you
for joining today's session
on product page optimization.
My name is Seema and I'm on
the App Store Monetization team
based out of Cupertino.
Cailin Arena: And I'm Cailin
on the App Store
Operations team.
Seema: Today, I'll begin the
session with a brief overview
of the product page optimization
feature on the App Store.
Then Cailin
will walk you through
how to set up a product page
optimization test
in App Store Connect.
After which,
I'll share testing strategies
to help you make the most
of this feature.
With that, let's get started.
What exactly is product page
optimization on the App Store?
Product page optimization
is a new feature
that gives you the ability
to optimize your on-store assets
across the App Store,
giving you a new way
to improve your App Store
conversion funnel.
Each week, over 600 million
visitors come to the App Store.
Take a moment to let
that number sink in.
You have a tremendous
opportunity to showcase your app
or game to many of them
and drive downloads.
We designed the product page
optimization feature
to help you maximize
this opportunity.
People visiting the App Store
browse the Apps tab
Games tab, and Today tab;
search for specific apps
on the Search tab;
or come in through external
referral links,
such as social media posts
or paid advertising.
Now with product page
optimization,
you can test different versions
of your product page assets
to learn which ones
are most effective
at getting App Store visitors
to download or redownload
your app or game.
In summary, here's an overview
of the feature.
You can test your app icon,
different screenshots
and app preview videos.
You can choose
the percent of traffic
that will see the treatments
for up to three treatments.
You can also select
specific localizations
in which to run your test.
You'll be able to submit
your product page test assets
for review, independent
from the app binary,
except for app icons,
which must be included
in the binary
of the version being tested.
To help illustrate
these important aspects
of this feature,
I'll use an example app,
Mountain Climber.
Here you see Mountain Climber's
original product page.
With the product page
optimization tool,
the elements that
can be tested are:
the app icon,
as you see here,
app preview videos
and screenshots.
Any other elements on the page
will appear as they are
on both the original
and treatment pages
and are not part of the test.
If you have a banner
on the top of your page,
or you have in-app events
featured on your page,
they will appear
on both the original
and the treatment pages.
Your product page optimization
treatments
appear across the App Store
to people on iOS 15
and iPadOS 15 and later.
To ensure people have
a consistent experience
across the App Store,
your icon treatments --
meaning icons
that you're testing --
will appear when people browse
the App Store,
like you see here on the left
on the Today tab.
Your icon treatment
will also appear in Search,
and of course,
on your product page.
Now, if you're testing
screenshots
or app preview videos,
those treatments
will appear in Search
and on your product page.
People will continue to see
the same treatment
across the App Store throughout
the duration of your test.
Now, in line with
that consistent experience,
if you're running a test
with an alternate app icon
and someone downloads
your app or your game
from this treatment,
The app icon
used in that treatment
will appear
on their device.
As with any
optimization feature,
you need analytics
to help you understand
which treatment
performs the best.
We've expanded App Analytics
to have a new product page
optimization dashboard
that'll provide you
with the data
to help you identify which
treatment performs the best.
As part of this feature,
we've developed
a unique methodology
that enables you to continuously
monitor your test
while it's running,
meaning you can identify
exactly when it's time
to make a decision
and stop the test at any time.
The user interface
includes indicators
to help guide your analysis
as your test progresses.
These indicators tell you when
a treatment is likely performing
better or worse
than your original product page,
or whether more data is needed
before you should
make a decision.
We'll cover more detail
on App Analytics
later in the presentation.
So how does this product
page optimization feature
benefit you as a developer?
As a start, we've streamlined
the submission process
with a new submission flow
specifically designed
for this feature,
which allows you
to submit your product page
test assets for review,
independent of the app binary
in App Store Connect,
except for app icons,
which must be included
in the binary of the version
being tested.
The product page
optimization tool
makes applying the
better-performing creative
as easy as possible,
so you can apply
better-performing screenshots
or app preview videos
within App Store Connect.
You can access updated tools in
App Analytics to monitor metrics
like unique impressions,
conversion rate,
and performance results
of the test
to help you make
data-driven decisions.
As you can see, this feature
benefits you as a developer
and gives you
the unique opportunity
to test within the App Store's
native environment.
We've created
a robust set of tools
to help you set up product page
optimization testing.
Now I'll hand it over
to Cailin who'll show you
how to implement this feature
in App Store Connect.
Cailin: Thanks Seema.
Before we begin
the test setup walkthrough,
make sure that your app
is ready for sale,
and that you have
the account holder, admin,
marketing,
or app manager role.
Start by clicking on
Product Page Optimization
on the left navigation,
under the Features subsection.
Then click Create Test
to begin setting up your test.
Here, you'll start by entering
in some basic information,
starting with reference name,
which is how you'll identify
this test going forward.
In this example,
we'll give it the name
"Preview Video A/B Test."
Next, you'll choose
the number of treatments.
You can have
up to three treatments.
For this example,
we'll go with one.
For Traffic Proportion,
this is the percentage of users
that will be randomly shown
a test treatment
instead of your default
product page.
For example, if a test
has three treatments
and you choose
a 30 percent traffic proportion,
each treatment will be shown
to 10 percent
of the total traffic.
In this example,
since we chose one treatment,
we can pick anything
from one to 50 percent.
We'll choose 50 percent
to allow the test to generate
significant results
in the shortest time possible.
For localizations,
you have the option
to run this test
on only a subset
of your app's localizations.
We'll keep all localizations
selected by default,
to allow for the maximum
number of users
to participate in the test.
From here, you can
optionally get an estimate
of how long this test will take
by expanding
the Estimate Your Test Duration
section.
The estimate is based
on your app's product page
performance over the last week
and a target threshold
of 90 percent confidence.
You just need to select
an improvement value
to get the estimate.
For example,
if we choose five percent,
this will calculate the number
of impressions needed
and an estimated duration
to get those impressions,
based on the last week's
performance.
In this case, it would take
about 174,404 impressions --
or about two weeks' time --
to conclude
that the treatment results
in 5 percent improvement
over the original product page,
with 90 percent confidence.
After reviewing this,
click on the Create Test button.
Now, you'll be able to set up
your treatments.
By default, the treatment
will be titled "Treatment A,"
but you can edit that name
to anything you like.
The treatment will start off
as an exact copy
of the original page --
same icon, screenshots,
and preview videos;
although in this case,
our Mountain Climber app
currently does not have
an app preview.
So we could add an app preview
to Treatment A
for each applicable device size,
and then click Start Test.
Then click Add for Review.
Here, you'll see a submission
confirmation screen,
showing the app version
that will be used for review,
and the items
that will be reviewed.
You could choose to add
other items to this submission,
but for this example,
we'll click to submit
just this test.
And with that, your test will be
submitted to App Review.
All metadata being used
in a test must be accepted
by App Review before use.
If you try to start a test
before the metadata is accepted,
the test won't start
and the metadata will be added
to a submission for you
to send for review.
If you already have a submission
for that platform in review,
you'll need to wait until
the first submission is complete
before you can send
the next test for review.
Going back to
product page optimization,
you'd see your test
with the status "In Review."
Once App Review does approve
the new assets,
the status will automatically
update to "Running,"
and show how long
the test has been running for.
At this point, you could click
View Analytics
to jump over to App Analytics.
Here, you can see
how the test is going.
You'll see the conversion rate
for the original page
and the treatment page
at the top,
and a conversion rate
trend chart below.
Once the test has reached
enough impressions
to reach 90 percent confidence,
the dashboard will indicate
how each treatment
is performing.
In this example, enough data
has been collected
to suggest that Treatment A
is performing better,
with a 1.9 improvement
over the original page's
conversion rate.
At this point, you may want
to apply Treatment A
to your original product page.
To do this,
you'd go back to the test
by clicking View in My Apps
in the bottom left.
Here, you can click on
Apply Treatment
to Original Product Page
to add the app preview video.
You can choose
whether to apply the treatment
to the version
live on the App Store,
or another version
in Prepare for Submission,
if you have one.
Then click Apply Treatment.
As a result, the app preview
we had in treatment
is now live in the App Store
with version 3.1,
and it's also been applied
to version 3.2 here.
Now, if you wanted to run
a test on the app icon,
you'd need to create
a test on that app
that includes multiple icons
in its binary.
If your app has multiple icons
included in the binary,
your treatment setup page
will include an App Icon tab.
And then click Change
to select a different icon.
All app icons included
in the app binary
for the version of your app
currently on the App Store
will display in the dropdown.
To include them, you must be
using Xcode 13 or later,
which includes the latest SDK
that supports alternate icons
in asset catalogues.
From here,
you could click Start Test
and you'd be able
to start the test
without going through
App Review,
because the icon
has already been reviewed
when it was included
in the binary
for the currently live version.
When it's time to promote
a treatment with an app icon
to your product page,
you'll need to create and submit
a new app version.
Finally,
the App Store Connect API
will be valuable
if you want to integrate
product page optimization
with your own systems.
The API will allow you
to automate
the creation
and management of tests
outside the App Store Connect
website.
I'll now hand it over to Seema
to share how you can
pull all this together
with product page
testing strategies.
Seema: Thank you, Cailin.
As Cailin mentioned,
I would like to go over
testing strategies.
Basically, what you should be
thinking about as you plan
your product page optimization
testing and experimentation.
As with any
marketing initiative,
we'll start with looking
at the top of the funnel.
Here you see the traffic mix
for the App Store Funnel.
Important to keep
this traffic mix in mind
as you think through
your testing strategies.
As you create your testing plan,
it's important to note
that your optimization efforts
are not a one-and-done.
It is an iterative,
ongoing process.
As you create your test,
start with thinking
of which asset matters the most.
For some, it might be figuring
out the best possible icon;
for others,
it might be the addition
of an app preview video.
As you configure your test,
ensure that the testing
variations are notable
and they're significant enough
to make a difference.
Minor tweaks tend not
to yield conclusive results.
Also, not all experiments
will produce positive results.
If so, reevaluate
the testing plan and test again.
Be sure to analyze
your test's performance
until you've identified the
treatment that performs best.
Once conclusive,
use the results
to inform next steps
and update your product page
with the better-performing
creative.
The product page optimization
tool makes this easy
by letting you update
the screenshots
and app preview videos
after the completion of a test
right there
within App Store Connect.
Now, I'd like to share
some ideas to help jumpstart
your product page optimization
test planning,
starting with examples
to help you
think through
testing asset testing.
First off, we'll go over
testing by feature.
For example,
does testing a screenshot
of an existing feature
drive better conversion
than a screenshot
showcasing a new feature?
Or say you are a fitness app.
Does highlighting
your primary value proposition
help increase
your conversion rate?
You might test by theme.
We've heard
that many of you
want to test seasonal content.
Now, you can test to see
if updating your icon or assets
to reflect seasonality
improves your download
conversion rate or not.
You could also test by character
or new content.
For example,
an entertainment app
could test to see if showcasing
new content performs better
than classic content.
And lastly, you might test
different creatives.
This one's a bit nuanced
but can be very effective.
For example, does adding
an app preview video
help improve
your download conversion rate?
Or testing color variations
like varying the background
color of a screenshot
to see which background
color performs best.
Keep these examples in mind
as you plan
your product page treatments.
Now that we've discussed
some asset testing ideas,
here are a few
important considerations
to help you create a test plan
starting with
traffic proportion,
which is the percentage of
people who will randomly see
a treatment version
of your product page assets.
Think about how you want
to distribute this percentage
between your original
product page and treatments.
When allocating
traffic to treatments,
keep in mind
your conversion rate.
You can choose
to allocate more traffic
to your original product page,
which is your control,
in case you're concerned about
how a new treatment
might perform.
Do note that no single treatment
can receive more traffic
than your original product page.
Another aspect to consider
is planning your assets
and treatments.
Think through
the product page asset
you will include in your test
and number of treatments
you'll create.
We do recommend testing
one asset at a time
to ensure that the results
are not cluttered.
As a reminder, you can create up
to three treatments per test.
Localizations.
The product page
optimization feature
includes testing
for specific localizations.
Think through what localizations
might be worth
including in your test...
such as those locales
you're interested
in expanding your app
or your game's market reach.
Although important
to keep in mind
the traffic volume
from those locales,
as that could result
in your test taking a bit longer
to get meaningful results.
Finally, think through
the duration of a test.
When setting up your test
in App Store Connect,
the tool will give you
an estimate
based on your app's product page
performance over the last week
and a target threshold
of 90 percent confidence.
You just need to select
an improvement value
to get the estimate.
So keep these
considerations in mind
as you plan your testing
to ensure maximum efficacy
of your product page
optimization efforts.
Let's take a look
at a few sample tests.
As a developer,
here is my sample test plan.
This sample test plan
includes the title of the test,
test description, hypothesis,
number of treatments,
expected traffic distribution,
and what localizations
the test should be applied to.
The first sample test is an icon
color test where we want to test
three color variations for
the app icon versus the control.
As icons are universal,
we plan to test this
across all locales.
Our hypothesis here
is that the brighter icon
will perform better.
The second sample test
is testing
localized
app preview videos
for the Japanese market,
and our hypothesis here
is that locally relevant assets
will drive higher conversion.
Since this is
a market-specific test,
the only localization
we'll select here is Japanese.
The third sample test is testing
out different screenshots
to see if character-focused
visuals perform better.
And in this case,
we'll allocate 40 percent
of our product page traffic
to our treatments,
leaving 60 percent
to see our control,
which is our original
product page.
Let's take a closer look
at that first test,
which is an icon color test
where we will test
icon color variations
across three treatments,
with a traffic distribution
of 30 percent
to the treatments
across all localizations.
Let's say we're a game developer
and we want to test out
different icons for our game
The Coast.
Here's what our original
product page looks like.
On the left, you see
our original treatment --
the one we just looked at --
and on the right,
you see the three treatments
we've created for our test,
each with a different
color icon.
As you saw in the test plan,
we chose to show our treatments
to 30 percent
of App Store traffic,
which means that each
of our three treatments
would receive 10 percent
of the total traffic;
and the original will receive
70 percent of the total traffic.
Once our test metadata
is approved by App Review,
the test will start.
Let's take a look at what
this looks like in App Analytics
as our test is running,
starting with
the results dashboard.
At the top,
you will see your test name,
the date your test began, and
the current status of your test.
Below that,
you'll see an overview
of your test performance,
with the conversion rate
for your original product page
as well as for each treatment
included in your test.
The Conversion Rate Trend chart
visualizes how your test
is progressing over time.
You can see the natural
ebbs and flows
as your test accumulates data
and begins to determine
which treatment performs best.
And at the bottom,
you'll get even more details
about your test,
including the number
of unique impressions
each treatment has received,
the conversion rate
for each treatment,
the improvement
each treatment has achieved
compared to the original
product page --
also known as the baseline --
and the confidence level
that we have in the results.
During the first seven days, we
will not show a confidence level
in order to account
for any daily fluctuations
before providing a result.
After your test has been running
for at least seven days,
you'll see
confidence indicators appear.
Now in this test,
we have 72 percent confidence
that Treatment A is
outperforming the baseline,
58 percent confidence
that Treatment B
is outperforming the baseline,
and very low confidence
that Treatment C
is outperforming the baseline.
Until a treatment reaches
90 percent confidence
in the result,
you'll see "Collecting Data"
for these treatments.
Now, if a treatment reaches
90 percent confidence,
relevant indicators will appear
under each treatment.
For example,
at this point in the test,
Treatment B is performing
worse than the baseline
with at least
90 percent confidence,
while Treatment A
is performing better.
And Treatment C is performing
so similar to the baseline,
that it's unlikely
we'll be able to detect
a significant difference
within the 90-day test duration
if the results continue
to accumulate at the same pace.
If you see this status
for all your treatments,
we recommend you end
the test and try again.
Now since
the test status indicators
are a new addition
to App Analytics,
let's go over each one
to understand what they mean.
The original product page
is the baseline by default,
which is the treatment that
all others are compared against,
Collecting data means that
we're not yet able to determine
whether the treatment
is performing better or worse
than the baseline with
90 percent confidence or more.
"Performing Better" means
that the treatment
is performing better
than the baseline
with at least
90 percent confidence.
"Performing Worse" means
the treatment is performing
worse than the baseline with
at least 90 percent confidence.
And "Likely to Be Inconclusive"
means that the test
isn't getting enough data
to make a determination
within the 90-day limit.
If you want to compare
treatments to one another,
you can change the baseline.
For example, here we can compare
each of our variants
against Treatment A.
In this case, each variant
is performing worse
than Treatment A with at least
90 percent confidence.
This means that you can
be confident that Treatment A
is indeed the best-performing
treatment out of them all.
Now going back to our icon test
with the original product page
as the baseline.
By clicking on the test name,
you can easily swap
between your current test
and past tests.
You can also export the data in
the chart or the table as a CSV
so you can analyze the data
on your own.
If you want even more details
about your results,
you can hover over
the conversion rate
to view the credible interval,
which shows the range
of possible values
that we estimate
for each treatment.
This information helps you
get a deeper understanding
of the results.
Lastly, once you're ready
to promote
the better-performing treatment
to your default product page,
you can click on the link
at the bottom
to navigate back to My Apps.
This wraps up
our sample icon test,
including interpreting
and evaluating the results
in App Analytics.
I hope that you now have
a comprehensive understanding
of the product page
optimization feature,
enough so you can start planning
your own testing.
Before I conclude, I'd like
to go over a few things
to look out for as you implement
your testing plans.
Not reaching
statistical significance.
It is important to remember
not to apply results
based on early testing
or those with minor uplifts.
As a reminder, App Store Connect
will let you know how long
the test will take based on
your traffic distribution
and your current
conversion rate.
It can be tempting
to act on early results.
It's important
to not make any conclusions
until your test has reached
statistical significance.
This ensures that
you can confidently claim
that the winning result
will make a notable
and positive difference
to your conversion rate.
Make sure the testing treatment
has significant enough
variations from the control,
if not, the test could result
in being inconclusive.
And ensure that the test
is set up to succeed.
Cross-check
that culturally relevant
or regional assets are applied
to the right localizations,
and review the estimated
duration of the test
to ensure that the traffic
from these localizations
are sufficient enough
to drive results
within the 90-day
testing timeframe.
As you execute
your testing plan,
keep these in mind to help
avoid any delays or any issues
with your product page
optimization testing.
If you're looking
for more information
or would like to reference
what we discussed today,
do visit our Developer website,
which is an excellent resource
that you can reference
at any time.
The Developer website
has helpful information
about the feature
and considerations
for when setting up your tests.
Once you start testing,
we recommend you continue
to identify new conversion goals
and areas where your conversion
rate can be improved.
With that, I'd like to conclude
our product page optimization
session today.
We are excited to see how
you all will use this feature
to improve your App Store
conversion rate over time.
Thank you.